You recently met with
families of hostages
still being held in Gaza.
More than 100 hostages
are believed to still be alive,
including six Americans.
A lot of the hostage families
with whom I've spoken
are pretty critical
of the Netanyahu government.
They say they don't think
Netanyahu is doing enough
to get their loved ones out,
that he's prioritized.
Military operations
instead of getting the hostages
back safely.
Is that what they told you?
Well, what I
what I heard from
not only families of hostages,
but as we walked
the streets of Kfar Rosa,
a kibbutz that was literally decimated
by the Hamas terrorists
invasion on October 7th, was a
was deep grief, but also a determination
to move their nation forward
and to restore their security.
I mean, you know,
it was remarkable to see the resilience
of the people
and the families that had lost loved
ones, the families of hostages.
And one understands their impatience.
And, you know,
I have three kids of my own,
two grandkids.
I can't even imagine the level of grief
that that
they're experiencing in the struggle.
But I must tell you
that I have never spent three days
on the road in any capacity
of whether it was on it
as vice president
or as a member of Congress, where
I have felt greater heartbreak
and greater inspiration.
And in combination,
when we went to the south
and we visited the kibbutz
where the Hamas terrorists
literally slaughtered families
in a merciless
and horrific way,
I and just never thought
I'd see the aftermath of war like that
and literally an unspeakable evil.
But to see the resilience
of the people of Israel,
to be among the troops
along the northern border with Lebanon
left me deeply inspired,
but more convinced than ever that
the United States of America must,
in this moment,
stand clearly shoulder to shoulder
with Israel
until they hunt down and destroy
the threat of Hamas once and for all.
So you have said that
Israel has the right to respond
to those horrific attacks
of October 7th
and the responsibility
to destroy Hamas as you just did.
But it does seem
that the IDF strikes have killed
more Palestinian civilians
and they have members of Hamas.
And there are Israelis
who are worried
about the high civilian death
toll in Gaza, including for the reason
that this high civilian death
toll might actually ultimately
make Israel less safe
by inspiring more future terrorists.
Do you share any of those concerns?
Well, first, Jake, look, I
grieve the loss
of any innocent civilian lives.
But one of the things I learned
as we visited
several
of where
the terrorist
literally took over the police station
and murdered people in the streets
is is that
this was not simply a terrorist attack,
but I believe
it was a terrorist invasion.
I mean, what I
what I learned
in our briefings in the South
was that that fence line separating
Israel from Gaza
was breached
in more than 90 different places
simultaneously, paving the way
for some 3000 terrorists heavily armed,
to move into Israel.
And in fact, the briefings I received
pointed out that actually the terrorists
had sufficient armaments and supplies
to literally march
all the way here to Tel Aviv,
all the way to Jerusalem.
But for the heroic efforts of police idea
forces and, frankly, courageous citizens,
they were stopped from doing that.
So I really believe that
what Israel is doing in Gaza
today is absolutely essential.
It is a response to an invasion
that was launched with the intention
of beginning the process of destroying
the Jewish state of Israel.
And I really do believe
that that this is a moment
where
where America needs
to speak with one voice,
that we will stand with Israel today
and tomorrow and every day
until they have won outright
this fight
and eliminated the threat of Hamas.
We learned late Friday night
that the secretary of defense, Lloyd
Austin, spent
multiple days
this past week in the hospital,
including time in the intensive
care unit for a medical issue
that is still undisclosed.
He did this
without the public, without Congress,
without the national Security Council
or even President Biden
being informed for several days.
The defense secretary temporarily assumed
some of the deputy defense secretary
temporarily assumed
some of the responsibilities
while she was on vacation in Puerto Rico.
As a former vice president,
you have
unique insight
as to what this actually means
for a secretary of defense
to be unavailable
and to not be transparent with his boss
about his health. What does it mean?
Well, first, I wish
I wish
the secretary of defense well,
and I'm pleased
he's making a full recovery.
But
this the handling of this
by the secretary of defense
is totally unacceptable.
And I believe the American people
have a right to know
about his medical condition,
about the reasons for it.
And he has he has a right to know
who was informed of his incapacity.
And I mean,
but but to think that at a time
when we have allies at war in Eastern
Europe and here in Israel,
that the leader of a
of America's military
at the Pentagon
would be out of commission
for a number of days.
And the president of the United States
didn't know about it.
I, I think I think it was
a dereliction of duty. And
and and
the secretary and the administration,
frankly, need to step forward
and give the American people the facts.
Yet we still don't even know what he was
hospitalized for.
Yesterday marked
the third anniversary
of the January six attack on the Capitol.
A Washington Post poll this week
found that a third of Republicans
believe the falsehood that it's probably
or definitely true
that the FBI instigated the attack
on the Capitol on January six.
President Trump
was spreading that lie
just this weekend, falsely
claiming the FBI was, quote,
leading the charge on January six.
That's not true.
Obviously, your life,
the lives of your family
members were threatened that day.
What do you say to those,
including your former running
running mate
who are actively spreading
this baseless lie
or maybe even more importantly,
to those who believe it?
Well, I would say
to every American, as I did during my
my presidential campaign,
that I know I did my duty, that day
to support and defend
the Constitution of the United States.
I kept my oath.
And and they also simply need to look
to the facts
that that the Capitol Hill police said
endured great hardship and great harm.
I think over 120 officers were injured.
I saw many of them
moving
through the garage where I was spirited
on the same day.
And, you know, the the truth is that
that this was a riot
that should never have happened.
That that as I've said many times
before, the former president's words
that day were reckless.
I believe all his history will judge
his role in that.
But at the end of the day,
where I live every day and
and frankly,
the words of encouragement
that I receive on a regular
basis is I know by God's grace
we did our duty that day three years ago.
But I will tell you, Jake, that
I actually I understand why
President Biden
wants to focus his campaign
on on three years ago,
the record of this administration
has weakened America at home and abroad.
And, you know,
I actually don't think
the election's going to be decided
on a tragic day three years ago.
I think it's going to be decided
on the failed policies
of the Biden administration
that embolden
the enemies of freedom around the world,
that launched the worst inflation,
that created the worst
crisis on our border in American history.
And it's one of the reasons
why I continue to hope
that with the Iowa caucuses
and New Hampshire
just around the corner,
that all the good Republican
voters in those states
will give our party a fresh start
and give us new leadership
to lead our party forward
in the election and beyond.
Is there somebody
other than Donald Trump that you want
the voters of Iowa to get behind?
Is there somebody you prefer,
whether it's Governor DeSantis
or Ambassador Haley?
You are somebody whose
endorsement could
actually make a difference
with any wavering Republicans
who want a fresh start.
As you note?
Well, I've been speaking
to several of my old competitors,
I think very highly
of Nikki Haley, of Ron DeSantis.
And frankly, Chris Christie
been a friend for many years.
And I don't put a lot of stock
in endorsements.
I'm not sure
whether I'm going to weigh in or if
and when I will.
But, you know, I ran for president
because I think different times
call for different leadership, Jake.
And and I'm hoping
that the good people of Iowa
that I got to know so
well in my campaign,
the good people of New Hampshire
and South Carolina will will look at this
moment and recognize
that elections are about the future.
And we need new leadership
in the Republican Party.
We certainly need new leadership
in the White House to move us forward.
And if I see an opportunity
to have an impact on achieving that,
I'll certainly do it.
And I'll keep you posted.
It's not just President Biden
who's focusing on January six.
Of course, you have Donald Trump
still talking about it.
Do you want to just like
take this opportunity
to clear up this lie
that the FBI was leading
the charge on January six?
It's obviously not true.
I'm sure you know it's not true.
Do you want to make make
that clear to the voters?
You know, I've seen the
director of the FBI
repeatedly assure
the American people
that the FBI were not the instigators
of the riot,
that occurred on January six.
And frankly, I'm very grateful
for the efforts of the FBI
to bring
nearly a thousand people to justice
who ransacked our Capitol
and did violence against police officers
that day.
But you're right,
We've been assured again and again
that it was not the case.
And I just must tell you,
having been there that day,
I mean, to see people literally
breaking windows, ransacking the Capitol,
it just infuriated me.
I remember thinking,
you know, not
this not here,
not at the United States Capitol.
And I believe everyone
that conducted that
that riot at the Capitol
needs to be held to the fullest
extent of the law
and pleased that many have.
But I have never been given
any information
of I've heard
the many repeated assurances
from the FBI that they were not involved,
and I take them at their word.